README.md, before:

# django-featureflags

A feature flags/toggle module for Django that allows you to quickly and temporarily disable some features on a site.

## Installing and Configuring

* `FEATUREFLAGS_LOADER`: The module responsible for loading the list of currently-disabled features. See [Disabling Features](#disabling) below.  Default: `'featureflags.loaders.settings_loader'`
* `FEATUREFLAGS_DISABLED_VIEW`: The view function to be called when a view is disabled with the `uses_feature` decorator. Default: `'featureflags.views.service_unavailable'`
* `FEATUREFLAGS_DEFAULT_TEMPLATE`: If using the `'featureflags.views.service_unavailable'` view, the template that should be rendered. Default is `503.html` if present, or a very simple internal message if not.
* `FEATUREFLAGS_CACHE_TIMEOUT`: The number of seconds that the currently-disabled features should be cached using Django's default cache. If set to zero, caching flags will be disabled and the loader will be called for every request. The default is 10 seconds.
* Additional settings may be available (or necessary) depending on the loader used. These are described below.

# Marking Features

In order to do its job, your code must indicate which logic uses which features. The easiest is using the decorator for view functions:

    from featureflags.flags import uses_feature
    
    @uses_feature('post_comment')
    def new_comment(request):
        # ...

    @uses_feature('post_comment')
    def edit_comment(request, comment_id):
        # ...

Now if you disable the `'post_comment'` feature, both of these views will return a "503 Service Unavailable" error.

It would probably be wise to document the feature strings used in your project.

You can also make lower-level calls to determine what features are disabled. This can be used anywhere in your code. For example,

    from featureflags.flags import feature_disabled
    
    def generate_report_data():
        if feature_disabled('big_reports'):
            return []
        # ...

In this case, how to best handle a disabled feature is your problem.


## Disabling Features <a name="disabling"></a>

### Loading from `settings.py`

The default `FEATUREFLAGS_LOADER` is `'featureflags.loaders.settings_loader'`. It looks at the setting `FEATUREFLAGS_DISABLE` for the currently-disabled features. It can be set like one of these:

    FEATUREFLAGS_DISABLE = set() # nothing disabled: normal operation
    FEATUREFLAGS_DISABLE = set(['big_reports', 'post_comment'])

Putting disabled features in `settings.py` requires a code-restart if you want to disable features: this might not be desirable.

### Loading from a JSON file

The loader `featureflags.loaders.file_loader` will read a JSON file with a list of the disabled features. You can set the location of the JSON file with the settings `FEATUREFLAGS_FILENAME`. So in your `settings.py`, you will have code like this:

    FEATUREFLAGS_LOADER = 'featureflags.loaders.file_loader'
    FEATUREFLAGS_FILENAME = `/home/deployment/disabled_features.json

Then in the `disabled_features.json` file, have content like one of these:

    []
    ["big_reports", "post_comment"]

### Loading from other places

TODO


## About Feature Flags

Some things to read about what feature flags are:

 * [Wikipedia: Feature Toggle](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_toggle)
 * [Martin Fowler: Feature Toggle](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/FeatureToggle.html)
 * [What is a feature flag?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7707383/what-is-a-feature-flag)

Commit message:

add panic notes to README

README.md, after:

# django-featureflags

A feature flags/toggle module for Django that allows you to quickly and temporarily disable some features on a site.

## Installing and Configuring

* `FEATUREFLAGS_LOADER`: The module responsible for loading the list of currently-disabled features. See [Disabling Features](#disabling) below.  Default: `'featureflags.loaders.settings_loader'`
* `FEATUREFLAGS_DISABLED_VIEW`: The view function to be called when a view is disabled with the `uses_feature` decorator. Default: `'featureflags.views.service_unavailable'`
* `FEATUREFLAGS_DEFAULT_TEMPLATE`: If using the `'featureflags.views.service_unavailable'` view, the template that should be rendered. Default is `503.html` if present, or a very simple internal message if not.
* `FEATUREFLAGS_CACHE_TIMEOUT`: The number of seconds that the currently-disabled features should be cached using Django's default cache. If set to zero, caching flags will be disabled and the loader will be called for every request. The default is 10 seconds.
* Additional settings may be available (or necessary) depending on the loader used. These are described below.

# Marking Features

In order to do its job, your code must indicate which logic uses which features. The easiest is using the decorator for view functions:

    from featureflags.flags import uses_feature
    
    @uses_feature('post_comment')
    def new_comment(request):
        # ...

    @uses_feature('post_comment')
    def edit_comment(request, comment_id):
        # ...

Now if you disable the `'post_comment'` feature, both of these views will return a "503 Service Unavailable" error.

It would probably be wise to document the feature strings used in your project.

You can also make lower-level calls to determine what features are disabled. This can be used anywhere in your code. For example,

    from featureflags.flags import feature_disabled
    
    def generate_report_data():
        if feature_disabled('big_reports'):
            return []
        # ...

In this case, how to best handle a disabled feature is your problem.


## Disabling Features <a name="disabling"></a>

This app uses the Django cache infrastructure to temporarily store the set of disabled features. So if you have multiple servers, any that share a (default) cache will have the same sets of features disabled.

### Loading from `settings.py`

The default `FEATUREFLAGS_LOADER` is `'featureflags.loaders.settings_loader'`. It looks at the setting `FEATUREFLAGS_DISABLE` for the currently-disabled features. It can be set like one of these:

    FEATUREFLAGS_DISABLE = set() # nothing disabled: normal operation
    FEATUREFLAGS_DISABLE = set(['big_reports', 'post_comment'])

Putting disabled features in `settings.py` requires a code-restart if you want to disable features: this might not be desirable. (But you can still [panic](#panic) without a code restart.)

### Loading from a JSON file

The loader `featureflags.loaders.file_loader` will read a JSON file with a list of the disabled features. You can set the location of the JSON file with the settings `FEATUREFLAGS_FILENAME`. So in your `settings.py`, you will have code like this:

    FEATUREFLAGS_LOADER = 'featureflags.loaders.file_loader'
    FEATUREFLAGS_FILENAME = `/home/deployment/disabled_features.json

Then in the `disabled_features.json` file, have content like one of these:

    []
    ["big_reports", "post_comment"]

### Loading from other places

TODO


## Panicking <a name="panic"></a>

Since we're planning for problems, it's difficult to know when and how your feature flags will be used. You can define a set of features to disable quickly in your `settings.py` like this:

    FEATUREFLAGS_PANIC_DISABLE = set(['authenticate', 'post_story', 'post_comment'])

Then if you actually do find yourself in a panic situation, simply get to a command-line and:

    python manage.py panic

This will disable the `FEATUREFLAGS_PANIC_DISABLE` features for `FEATUREFLAGS_PANIC_TIMEOUT` seconds (default 60). Hopefully that buys you enough time to figure out what's going wrong. You can return to normal operation like this:

    python manage.py unpanic


## About Feature Flags

Some things to read about what feature flags are:

 * [Wikipedia: Feature Toggle](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_toggle)
 * [Martin Fowler: Feature Toggle](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/FeatureToggle.html)
 * [What is a feature flag?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7707383/what-is-a-feature-flag)
